RFC: Modular TensorFlow Graph C API (#318)
tensorflow/community: rfcs/20201027-modular-tensorflow-graph-c-api.md

The C APIs follows current implementation C++ API, [TF_Buffer](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.3/tensorflow/c/c_api.h#L109-L113) and related proto files are the interface between proper and plugin.
When initializing, TensorFlow loads the plugin and registers a new graph optimizer into Grappler. In the [Optimize](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.3/tensorflow/core/grappler/optimizers/graph_optimizer.h#L58) function, plugin authors need to deserialize `TF_Buffer` to `plugin::GraphDef` object to do some graph transformations, and serialize the optimized `plugin::GraphDef` object back to `TF_Buffer` as output.

<p align="center">
 <img src="20201027-modular-tensorflow-graph-c-api/flow.png" height="400"/>
</p> 

<!-- Here is what plugin authors need to do:
1. Implementing `P_Optimize` function.
2. Copying proto files from proper to plugin, implementing `P_MessageToBuffer`/`P_BufferToMessage` functions.
3. (Optional)Implementing `plugin::util` functions for graph transformation.
4. Registering the optimizer -->

### Struct/Function/Object Overview
- Struct

>   - Struct that should be filled by the plugin: `P_OptimizerConfigFns`, `P_RegistrationParams`, `TF_OptimizerBuilder`

Reviewer: Does `P_` prefix mean that the struct should be filled by the plugin? I am thinking if `TP_` prefix would be better here (that might match what we do for `StreamExecutor` C API better where we have `SP` and `SE` prefixes).

Also, should `TF_OptimizerBuilder` be `(T)P_OptimizerBuilder`?

Author: Yes. I have already changed those names.

  - Struct that should be filled by the proper: `TF_GrapplerItem`, `TF_GraphProperties`, `TF_FunctionLibraryDefinition`
- Function
  - Function that should be implemented by plugin:
    - Creation/Deletion/Optimization function of optimizer.
    - `P_MessageToBuffer`, `P_BufferToMessage`: Serialization/Deserialization of objects generated by protobuf.
    - `TF_InitGraphPlugin`: Optimizer registration.
    - (Optional)Util function for graph transformation.
- Object:
  - Object defined in plugin: [Object](#proto) generated by protobuf

### Usage Overview

* **Graph Optimization function**

  Graph [Optimize](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.3/tensorflow/core/grappler/optimizers/graph_optimizer.h#L58) function is the main part that plugin authors need to implement. The C API looks like below. Both input and output graphs are represented by serialized `TF_Buffer` objects:
  ```cpp

>   void P_Optimize(void* optimizer, TF_Buffer* graph_buf, TF_Buffer* optimized_graph_buf, TF_Status* s);

Reviewer: Would it make sense to have a struct for `optimizer` instead of `void*`? I am wondering if there would be some properties we would want to pass in the future.

Author: This mechanism is following `Compute` function in kernel C API. Here `void* optimizer` is a struct defined in plugin and created in `P_Create` function, it only contains some members that are used in plugin.

> I am wondering if there would be some properties we would want to pass in the future.
I guess what you referred is `TF_OptimizerBuilder`. Currenty create/delete/optimize is included since these are most useful. We can add more if needed.

Author: I have already changed and updated the RFC.

  - [tensor_shape.proto](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.3/tensorflow/core/framework/tensor_shape.proto): TensorShapeProto
  - [types.proto](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.3/tensorflow/core/framework/types.proto): DataType, SpecializedType
  - [versions.proto](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.3/tensorflow/core/framework/versions.proto): VersionDef

  After optimizing, plugin authors need to serialize the optimized `GraphDef` object into `TF_Buffer` as output.

  Serialization function `MessageToBuffer` is already defined, desearization function `BufferToMessage` will be added in proper to convert plugin passed `TF_Buffer` back to proper's `GraphDef`. In plugin side, plugin authors need to define `P_MessageToBuffer` and `P_BufferToMessage`, which should be the same as those defined in proper, except the namespace of protobuf.

  Proper:
  ```cpp
  Status MessageToBuffer(const tensorflow::protobuf::MessageLite& in, TF_Buffer* out);
  Status BufferToMessage(const TF_Buffer* in, tensorflow::protobuf::MessageLite& out);
  ```

  Plugin:
  ```cpp

>   Status P_MessageToBuffer(const plugin::protobuf::MessageLite& in, TF_Buffer* out);

Reviewer: Just to make sure, `P_MessageToBuffer` and `P_BufferToMessage` are not a part of the API surface, right?

Author: Yes. I think the name needs to be changed, they are confusing, maybe "plugin::MessageToBuffer" is more clear. I will clarify it in RFC.

* **Enabling plugin optimizers**

  Front-end python users can turn on/off all registered plugin optimizers through python API.
  By default, the registered optimizer are turned on, users can turn off them. The registered optimizers would be runnning if they are turned on and the graph device type is matched with registered device type.
  ```python
  >> from tensorflow.core.protobuf import rewriter_config_pb2
  >> config = tf.compat.v1.ConfigProto()
  >> config.graph_options.rewrite_options.use_plugin_optimizers = rewriter_config_pb2.RewriterConfig.ON
  ```

* **Configuring existing optimizers**

>   If pluggable graph optimizer is registered to a device type, e.g., GPU, its optional for plugin authors to provide a recommended configuration indicate whether some of existing optimizers in proper can be turned on/off, by populating flags in `P_RegistrationParams`.

Author: Yes, plugin authors should register the optimizer along with device_type and configuration, and only one optimizer and configuration is allowed for each device type.

  ```cpp
  TF_Bool get_remapping() { return false; }
  TF_Bool get_auto_mixed_precision() { return true; }

  void TF_InitGraphPlugin(P_RegistrationParams* params, TF_Status* status) {
    // Plugin authors can turn on/off some optimizers.

>     params.config_fns.get_remapping = get_remapping;

Author: Each field has three states: on, off and default. If function is not provided, it means plugin authors want to use the default value defined in [rewrite_config.proto](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/master/tensorflow/core/protobuf/rewriter_config.proto).It's hard to distinguish between off and default using TF_Bool only.

    void (*optimize_func)(void*, TF_Buffer*, TF_Buffer*);
    void (*destory_func)(void*);
  } TP_Optimizer;

  #define TP_OPTIMIZER_STRUCT_SIZE \
    TF_OFFSET_OF_END(TP_Optimizer, destory_func)

  typedef struct TP_OptimizerRegistrationParams {
    size_t struct_size;
    void* ext;  // reserved for future use

    int32_t major_version;
    int32_t minor_version;
    int32_t patch_version;

    // device_type optimizer is registered.
    const char* device_type;
    TP_OptimizerConfigFns* config_fns;
    TP_Optimizer* optimizer;
  } TP_OptimizerRegistrationParams;

  #define TP_OPTIMIZER_REGISTRARION_PARAMS_STRUCT_SIZE \
    TF_OFFSET_OF_END(TP_OptimizerRegistrationParams, optimizer)

  void TF_InitGraphPlugin(TP_OptimizerRegistrationParams* params, TF_Status* status);

  #ifdef __cplusplus
  }  // extern "C"
  #endif
  ```

* **Plugin util C API**

  ```cpp
  #ifdef __cplusplus
  extern "C" {
  #endif

  // TF_GrapplerItem represents a combination of a graph, one of more fetch nodes,
  // and potentially a set of nodes to feed.
  typedef struct TF_GrapplerItem TF_GrapplerItem;

  // Get TF_GrapplerItem from TF_Buffer.
  TF_GrapplerItem* TF_GetGrapplerItem(TF_Buffer* buffer);

>   // Get a set of node names that must be preserved. This includes feed and

Reviewer: What does `preserved` mean in this context? Does it mean kept in the graph and not removed?
Can you update the comment to add more details?

Author: Yes. It means thoes nodes cannot be transformed/removed. I'll add more details.

  // fetch nodes, keep_ops, init_ops. Fills in `max_values` and `storage_size`,
  // they will be used in `TF_GetNodesToPreserveList`

>   void TF_GetNodesToPreserveSize(TF_GrapplerItem* item, int* max_values,

Reviewer: Should `max_values` be `num_values`? My guess is this function returns an actual value count.

Author: Yes, it is an actual value count. I have changed.

  | ON    | OFF | ON/DEFAULT | **OFF**| Same as previous scenario.|
  | OFF   | ON/DEFAULT/OFF | ON/DEFAULT/OFF | **OFF**| The optimizer is always disabled when user turns it off. |

  Plugins should also run a set of performance benchmarks to ensure that turning off some existing optimizers doesn't cause nontrivial performance degradations.

### Versioning Strategy and Stability

* **Graph C API**

  Version strategy of Graph C API follows Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 ([semver](http://semver.org/)). Each release version has a format `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, as outlined in [TensorFlow version compatibility](https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/versions#semantic_versioning_20). Struct size is used to track compatibility. More details can be found in [StreamExecutor C API Versioning Strategy RFC](https://github.com/tensorflow/community/blob/master/rfcs/20200612-stream-executor-c-api/C_API_versioning_strategy.md)

* **GraphDef**

>   The compatibility of `GraphDef` between plugin and proper is guaranteed by protobuf library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The compatibility of `GraphDef` between plugin and proper follows the same compatibility [rules](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/cpptutorial?hl=en#extending-a-protocol-buffer) and [guarantees](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/proto3?hl=en#updating) as protobuf library.
```

Author: Thanks for your suggestion. Updated.

## TF-2.x
>> tf.config.optimizer.set_experimental_options({"use_plugin_optimizers", False})
```

This API can be used to:
* Turn on/off all registered plugin graph optimizers. By default, the registered optimizers are turned on if they are successfully registered, users can turn off them. If the registered optimizers are turned on and the graph device type is matched with registered device type, they would be runnning.
* Use recommended configuration of existing optimizers.
  If pluggable graph optimizer is registered to a device type, e.g., GPU, plugin authors can provide a recommended configuration indicate whether some of existing optimizers in proper can be turned on/off, by populating flags in `TP_OptimizerConfigs`. If user turns on the optimizer, the recommended configuration is automatically applied. Otherwise user-set configuration is used.

  ```cpp
  void TF_InitGraphPlugin(TP_OptimizerRegistrationParams* params, TF_Status* status) {
    // Plugin authors can turn on/off some optimizers.
    params->configs->remapping = TF_TriState_Off;
    params->configs->auto_mixed_precision = TF_TriState_On;
    // ...
  }
  ```

>   When multiple plugins are successfully registered and running for a graph, their recommended configurations may differ with each other. If any of the config has turned off the optimizer, the optimizer will be disabled. The following table lists all possible scenarios. In the table, plugin's config is represented by tristates, `ON` means turn on optimizer, `OFF` means turn off optimzier, and `DEFAULT` means uses proper's config.

Author: Done

  | Proper's config | Plugin1's config | Plugin2's config  | Final config | Notes|
  |:-------------- |:-------------- |:-------------- |:-------------- |:-------------- |
  | ON    | ON/DEFAULT | ON/DEFAULT | **ON**| The optimizer is enabled. |
  | ON    | OFF | OFF | **OFF**| The optimizer is disabled, unless users manually unload the plugin. Grappler prints warnings to remind users that config has been changed based on plugin's config.|

>   | ON    | ON/DEFAULT | OFF | **OFF**| The optimizer is disabled if at least one plugin turns off it. Grappler prints warnings to remind users that config has been changed based on plugin's config, and potention performance regression may happen due to the conflict configs.|

Author: Done

  | ON    | OFF | ON/DEFAULT | **OFF**| Same as previous scenario.|
  | OFF   | ON/DEFAULT/OFF | ON/DEFAULT/OFF | **OFF**| The optimizer is always disabled when user turns off it. |

> 

Author: Done

    TF_TriState disable_model_pruning;
    TF_TriState implementation_selector;
    TF_TriState function_optimization;
    TF_TriState common_subgraph_elimination;
    TF_TriState arithmetic_optimization;
    TF_TriState debug_stripper;
    TF_TriState constant_folding;
    TF_TriState shape_optimization;
    TF_TriState auto_mixed_precision;
    TF_TriState auto_mixed_precision_mkl;
    TF_TriState pin_to_host_optimization;
    TF_TriState arithmetic_optimization;
    TF_TriState layout_optimizer;
    TF_TriState remapping;
    TF_TriState loop_optimization;
    TF_TriState dependency_optimization;
    TF_TriState memory_optimization;
    TF_TriState auto_parallel;
    TF_TriState scoped_allocator_optimization;
  } TP_OptimizerConfigs;

  #define TP_OPTIMIZER_CONFIGS_STRUCT_SIZE \
    TF_OFFSET_OF_END(TP_OptimizerConfigs, scoped_allocator_optimization)

  // Struct for Optimizer. Plugin authors must provide an optimize function.
  // Creation and deletion functions are optional.
  typedef struct TP_Optimizer {
    size_t struct_size;
    void* ext;  // reserved for future use
    void* (*create_func)();
    void (*optimize_func)(void*, TF_Buffer*, TF_Buffer*);

>     void (*destory_func)(void*);

Author: Thanks for your review. All comments have been addressed.
